What is an Array?
An array is a collection of items of the same variable type that are stored at contiguous memory locations. 
It’s one of the most popular and simple data structures and is often used to implement other data structures. 
Each item in an array is indexed starting with 0.

Basic terminologies of array
Array Index: In an array, elements are identified by their indexes. Array index starts from 0.
Array element: Elements are items stored in an array and can be accessed by their index.
Array Length:  The length of an array is determined by the number of elements it can contain. 

Representation of Array
int arr[5];	 // This array will store integer type element 
char arr[10]; // This array will store char type element 
float arr[20]; // This array will store float type element

the above declaration is static or compile-time memory allocation

Below are the languages that support dynamic memory allocation
int *array = new int[5];

Types of arrays: 
One-dimensional array (1-D arrays): You can imagine a 1d array as a row, where elements are stored one after another.
Two-dimensional array: 2-D Multidimensional arrays can be considered as an array of arrays or as a matrix consisting of rows and columns.

Types of Array operations:
Traversal: Traverse through the elements of an array.
Insertion: Inserting a new element in an array.
Deletion: Deleting element from the array.
Searching:  Search for an element in the array.
Sorting: Maintaining the order of elements in the array.

Applications of Array Data Structure:

Below are some applications of arrays.

Storing and accessing data: Arrays are used to store and retrieve data in a specific order. For example, an array can be used to store the scores of a group of students, or the temperatures recorded by a weather station.
Sorting: Arrays can be used to sort data in ascending or descending order. Sorting algorithms such as bubble sort, merge sort, and quicksort rely heavily on arrays.
Searching: Arrays can be searched for specific elements using algorithms such as linear search and binary search.
Matrices: Arrays are used to represent matrices in mathematical computations such as matrix multiplication, linear algebra, and image processing.
Stacks and queues: Arrays are used as the underlying data structure for implementing stacks and queues, which are commonly used in algorithms and data structures.
Graphs: Arrays can be used to represent graphs in computer science. Each element in the array represents a node in the graph, and the relationships between the nodes are represented by the values stored in the array.
Dynamic programming: Dynamic programming algorithms often use arrays to store intermediate results of subproblems in order to solve a larger problem.

What is a Subarray?
A subarray is a contiguous part of array, i.e., Subarray is an array that is inside another array.

What is a Subsequence?
A subsequence is a sequence that can be derived from another sequence by removing zero or more elements, without changing the order of the remaining elements.

What is a Subset?
If a Set has all its elements belonging to other sets, this set will be known as a subset of the other set.


Array | Searching

There are several searching algorithms. The most commonly used among them are:

Linear Search : time complexity O(N)
Binary Search : time complexity O(log2N)
Ternary Search : time complexity O(log3N)

Sorting
In-Place Sorting: In-place sorting means arranging the elements without using any extra space other than the given array.

Stability of Sorting: A sorting algorithm is said to be stable if the relative order of the same valued elements is preserved in the final sorted array 